5) Negotiate Like Your Life Depends On It  
The main goal is to make sure the person feels heard and safe, especially their deepest concerns and most important goals, and their intent and values recognized. Collaborate on finding concerns and problems and choosing the right solutions. We're all unique so treat people the way they want to be treated. Steel man their concerns, standards, and goals. It helps to be contagiously positive and optimistic towards a great outcome, which everyone is usually worried about.   
People are actually pretty good problem solvers. But we're really bad problem finders and facers because it's really painful to face our weaknesses and failures,so we tend to avoid them and solve the wrong problems, which have bad outcomes, which is a negative feedback cycle spiraling downward. 
Are we experts that make almost no mistakes  when stating something new? No. So perfect practice and lots of daily practice is important to getting a little better eaxh day and before you know it, you'll be the expert.   
Do decisions, negotiations, agreements always have great outcomes? No  
Therefore, do people view these situations as riskless opportunities? No  
People feel threatened by them because we fear having a bad outcome.  
What's holding you back from making a deal? Fears. Find the fears. Fears of consequences, problems, fears of missing out on benefits   
Why people won't do a deal is 9 times more important than why they will, the concerns and costs are way more important than the benefits and gains. Fear memory is important because it reveals out past mistakes and what we should watch out for and do differently in the future. It's still very important to hear and label what's an important positive goal for people, it's just not as powerful   
How do people get mad when you're clearly listening to them? It's hard. So identify and label their emotions, which are the important problems they are feeling. Unsaid problems are serious threats and invisible monsters until you name them, then they become visible tigers in a specific spot, which is less threatening and the solutions pop up right away 
When people hear problems, they immediately begin finding soltuons, it's automatic, just ask any wife what their husband's do when they need to pour out their frustrations to vent not problem solve  
People own the solutions they come up with, rarely the one shoved down their throats   
Consequences of not communicating and negotiating well  
Not truly listening to self, wrong career, drinking problem, marriage problem, divorce, lose half the time I get to see my son  
Not truly listening to my wife, family, friends, or boss, deteriorating relationships, poorer performance, more problems, fewer friends, no sex, divorce, lose half the time I get to be with my son  
The goal in negotiation/persuasion is to have great outcomes and be contagiously optimistic about getting one, you have great outcomes when you prove you're not a threat and that you can help each other make great deals and decisions, now and hopefully in the future, which are deals where we feel heard and show how we address our concerns and what we value/what's important to us, how we solve the bad stuff, emotions reveal the bad stuff especially the worst and deepest concerns and pains, and the good stuff, emotions also reveal the needs and goals. Emotions reveal 5 times as much info than the words we are saying because emotions reveal what we care about and are concerned about. Seek to understand pain before seeking to be understood and selling your position. People feel threatened and emotional at first because it keeps people safe from danger. If we don't feel threatened and we can trust the person, we can be open to anything, so the first step is we need to prove we're not a threat and calm the emotions down before people will be open to any ideas or agreements, we prove we're not a threat by directly bringing up and showing how we can help solve their concerns, pains, needs, and goals with vivid examples and stories with emotions and imagery. If we succeed, they'll confirm by saying "That's right". You're seeing their pain and needs, that's empathy, not sympathy. Empathy is seeing their pain and where they're coming from. Sympathy is agreeing with it, and we don't always agree with their point of view. We should always be able to prove we see their pain and where they're coming from. If you don't know their pain or goals, be curious and research or guess because you want to help each other make great deals, failing to prepare is preparing to fail, guess with very powerful no-ended questions because they make people feel protected, safe, and like you're actually addressing their concerns and pains, they focus on the negatives that must be addressed. It's hard to ask No-ended questions because we fear they may say Yes instead and point out our bad stuff issue is a real issue, but that's critical to get ANY deal, the bad stuff HAS to be solved or the deal won't get done or it will be a shitty deal. Powerful no-ended questions allow the person to answer several questions all at once to justify their No answer. No-ended questions get massive informational bang for your buck. If they say Yes though, then you know this is a very important issue you need to show how to solve. Yes-ended questions are threatening and anxiety-inducing, they feel like traps, they feel dangerous, and they only answer a single question. You have to ask way more Yes questions to get to your final destination, which piles on the anxiety. Yes questions usually focus on the positives but we feel addressing the negatives is much more important to us in making a deal or not, and whether the deal is a bad one or a great one. If your guess is wrong, they will correct you, yay! They will provide you with the key problems that are keeping them from making a decision, which is a gold mine of vital info. If they don't correct you, ask directly about what they are in a non-threatening way. Some people are afraid to tell you the deepest darkest most important problem to them because they fear it'll hurt you. Try to guess it, they will be glad you did.  
If their actions don't add up to their goals, ask them how they add up.  
Once we prove we're not a threat and they calm down, they can feel safe and open to collaborate and share information about how we can help each other address our concerns, pains, needs, goals  
Talk more, get info, be helpful, accusation audit, No-ended questions, label, mirror, get clarification, ensure their actions achieve their goals  
The last impression is the lasting impression  
The pronouns we use, You, We, I are critical, use the right one to create the feeling you desire  
You must care about what you say, how you say it, and your body language because of how it makes people feel  
Is what you're saying making them feel safer, heard, understood, and respected? If not, the chances of a good deal drop substantially  
When we name and identify threats, they become less dangerous  
Labeling, acknowledging, writing/talking about negatives, reduces their threat because it provides a sense of clarity, control, and certainty that was lacking before the threat was identified, we calm down, feel safer, because we see the problem, now we can act to avoid it or solve it, which allows us to be vastly more open to ideas and agreements because the threat was reduced  
Once you stop suppressing fears and start discussing them, their threat and power over you can be significantly reduced and go away peacefully
People need to get their concerns off their chest to make a good decision but they are afraid of doing so, so they are grateful you do for them 
Since you bring it up, they are so glad you did, and we can work it out  
If you don't know, guess first, then ask (avoid I pronoun, use It seems/looks/sounds/feels like there is this specific issue/feeling)  
To get clarification about something, mirror/paraphrase it back to them in a questioning tone, inviting them to expand, explain, or change their mind  
Tell us about yourself, experience, how'd you get into development, what value is being to this specific company  
Adapt answers dynamically, change on a dime if the audience changes direction  
One of the most important tools is to get them to talk more period, more talk means more information, more info reveals their concerns, pains, needs, and goals, the more you find out, the better you can help show how you will solve their concerns and meet their needs, so ask them if it would be a bad idea to talk more about a topic, maybe you misunderstood something, let them talk, expand, and reveal, they should be talking 5 times more than you, he who talks most loses  
Negotiate over time, not all at once, be incremental, at least 2-3 meetings, get the most info possible, otherwise, you're probably getting a worse deal because you asked for too much too fast and it made them feel threatened  
We need to calm down and not feel threatened to make great decisions, we need to help each other calm down and feel safe and open to good ideas  
We're up to 33% smarter when we feel calm and not threatened, joke around, have fun, and enjoy a conversation  
People behave according to 4 groups: fight, flight, freeze, and make friends   
We understand ideas and are more convinced by them if they are explained in examples with vivid imagery and preferably some humor, examples are real-world actual proof your points are good ones  
Telling people to believe something is hard for them to embrace and far slower than posing questions that let them discover and choose the conclusion
The initial 7-second impression is critical, people are always thinking "how you going to help me," and you need to say specifically and vividly how you are going to help them
